you
[Music]
the second longest-running primetime
drama after Gunsmoke in television
history
North landings in 1979 1993 fourteen
season tenor is even more prestigious
because I survived both the competition
of lesser primetime soaps such as
dynasty and the advance of cable
television prophetically series
co-creator David Jacobs taught his cast
at the outset we're not going to get any
attention we won't win any awards but we
are going to go on forever welcome to
another episode of how they changed and
let's have a look on some curiosities
surrounding Knott's landing
ironically the spin-off of the
phenomenally popular Dallas was created
prior to his predecessor creators David
Jacobs and Michael Philemon envisioned
the television series modeled after
England
Bergman's 1973 Swedish miniseries later
edited into an oscar-nominated film
scenes from a marriage the concept
involved the study of neighboring
married couples in various states of
continent living in a kudos up in
Southern California now CBS like the
pilot they wanted something more
glamorous and on a larger scale
resulting in Jacobs and Philemon
pitching Dallas once Dallas became a hit
the producers were from the story of
Gary Ewing that Shackleford the
alcoholic and weak-willed younger
brother of both TR Larry Hagman and
Bobby Patrick Duffy in the other well
the teenage Gary had married villain
Clemens and fathered their child Lucy
though circumstances had separated them
for 16 years on a special of Dallas on
December 13 1979
Carrie Ewing and valiant feminist
viewing John van Ark who had found each
other again
remarried and moved to California town
named Knott's landing
the original idea was that if the couple
could get on their feet in a place far
away from Gary's powerful relatives they
could then send for Lucy and be real
as a family but as lark and the
vicissitudes of television drama would
have it the reunion never took place
Val Knott's landing received only
mediocre ratings for its first short
season only 13 episodes the producers
made three major changes in the second
season which caused ratings to escalate
first they shifted the format of the
show from self-contained episodes to
serialization introducing plot lines
which could span the entire season
second they created brought lines which
would allow for visits from Tallis
characters to boost ratings and third
then perhaps most important they cast
television and film actress Donna mills
known primarily for a support set victim
roles as so true effects in a Buckhannon
Hamm set Fairgate sister who's obsessed
with both money and power thus upon
meeting Gary Ewing and learning of his
wealthy family he sets her sights on him
and her destructive efforts become the
most central conflict in the series Ron
astral Ava's Gary and Val break up and
then struggled to reunite through a
succession of lovers and spouses as
seasons past not lending continued to
hold its own in its Thursday night
timeslot against stiff competition from
the popular Hill Street Blues and then a
lay low despite the increasing influx of
more melodramatic plot lines such as
balance tween infants being stolen and
and sold by Anna Faris baby doctor the
producers of North Landing contended
that the secret of their longevity was
the emphasis on middle-class characters
and relationships which to some extent
mirror the experiences of their audience
since often depicted characters involved
in everyday situations such as preparing
meals and taking out the trash these
sentiments were confirmed by USA Today
which contended not always shown as the
lists guilty of TVs guilty pleasures
giving nighttime so fans middle-class
characters and backyard barbecues is not
to the flowing champagnes and lifestyles
of the rich and famous of other shows in
addition the show was often praised by
critics for taking on such serious
subjects as alcoholism prescription drug
abuse teen drug abuse mental illnesses
child abuse divorce and bereavement
issues with which it's campy arrivals
refused to deal well former Broadway
star Michelle Lee proved the show's
anchor appearing in every episode in
their honest valance neighbor and best
friend Karen Fairgate Mackenzie
throughout the course of its run not
landing also featured the series of
appearances by veteran Hollywood stars
such as our gardener
hor d'oeuvre with ramen Angela Harris
who actually became a cast member for
several seasons as violence mother
receiving an Emmy nomination for her
work but the show could also prove a
star-making vehicle as evidenced by the
rise of Alec Baldwin who later starred
in major Hollywood films such as The
Hunt for Red October in the edge
originally introduces mild-mannered
Joshua rush balance half-brother Baldwin
performs of virtues a transformation
over the ensuing season as this humble
preaches his son becomes first a
televangelist then a raving megalomaniac
who marries and then passes his wife
cathegory played by singer Lisa Hartman
as the plot lines grew more outlandish
with Charlize Karen suddenly becomes a
talk show host and is talked by crazed
fan ratings slipped dramatically in the
thirteenth season
in addition annual contract renewals of
the increasingly large cast rendered the
show too costly to produce despite the
producers reducing the number of
appearances by regular cast members and
even writing out the show's long-running
characters as a result that produces
willingly canceled the show in 1993 he
with Jacobs commenting I think we all
felt rather than continue to unprotect
limbs which is really what we were doing
there was just time to stop in 1997 the
majority of the cast members
knighted for a four-hour miniseries not
landing back to the coup de sac which
suffered from contravenes and silliness
resulting in its low ratings in its wake
creator David Jacobs went on to create
other short-lived series scoring another
hit with Lewis & Clark both Michelle Lee
and Donna mills have formed their own
production companies in addition them so
the show have developed a number of
Northland and Internet's eyes where they
can continue the show by writing their
own episodes to celebrate North's
Lending's 200th episode the cast was
allowed to improvise their lines
episodes 200 and 201 voices everywhere
had the cast assembled Gregg's wrench to
moon Laura's death the writers wrote a
few general guidelines and let the
actors take it from there Joan van Ark
decided to use the show to try and
combat her Paul Val image Terry Austin
chose to have children heavily and deal
with Pierce's death Kevin Dobson and
Michelle Lee introduced their characters
wish for a child William Devane let us
see the vulnerable side of Greg but
chose to do it away from other
characters as he knew Greg would this
improvisation was done as an experiment
but the producers were not very happy
with that and so it was never done again
to cast members died during the Tanner
on Knots Landing Steve Shaw who played
Eric Farragut died in an automobile
accident on December the 5th 1990 in Los
Angeles he was only 25 episode 298 an
American Hero
is dedicated to him in the final moments
of the episode show clips of him - a
song sung by Michelle Lee his death was
not addressed as storyline Larry Riley
who played Frank Williams died on June
the 6th 1992 from AIDS he's survived by
his wife Nina and one son episode 326
found and lost is dedicated to him a
storyline simply said he had moved away
John van Ark thou appeared on Rhoda
she played Joe's ex-wife Marian and
mother of their son Tony John also made
several other guest appearances before
lending a permanent role in a
short-lived medical sitcom another
memorable performance was a ditzy blonde
on the Odd Couple both Rhoda and The Odd
Couple can be seen on Nick at Nite so
watch for her several of the cast
members wrote or directed episodes of
North Landing the cast who participated
in writing or directing includes James
Houghton Kenny
William Devane Greg Kevin Dobson Mack
wish Ally
Turin and John van Ark well the all-time
rising and directing award goes to John
Pleshette Richard Avery who both wrote
and directed several episodes Knots
Landing was created before Dallas when
Michael Philemon and David Jacobs
submitted Knott's landing to CBS they
told them that they wanted a moussaka
like glitzier show the producers took
one of the characters Gary Ewing who was
the estranged son of a rich family and
created the new series about his
relatives with a success of Dallas they
got the go-ahead to begin production
Knots Landing in that's all for now
comment what series review do you want
to see next and subscribe for more
take care friends